1. Tell me about a time you faced a major technical obstacle. How did you resolve it?
   
A time that I faced a major technical obstacle was when I was working on my game, “Mind On Break”. This game uses the player’s microphone input to interact with the world. Programming audio input can be very tricky. For what I was doing in particular, there was not a lot of documentation or help online so I had to resort to figuring it out myself. Another main issue was that once I got it working, it only worked properly on my computer. This made testing much more difficult because I did not have consistent access to a computer in which it did not work. I fixed this by using a public computer. The game actually ended up working on that computer but it gave me a bit of insight into why it was not working on others. Both my computer and this public one only had one possible microphone input device. All of the other computers that I had tested it on, had multiple. I added a false microphone to my computer and got it to act the same as it was on all the computers that it failed on. Now, since I had a computer that it was not working on, I was able to test out multiple solutions and figure out that it was not working due to an issue with memory leaks when swapping between microphone inputs. 

2. Describe a situation where you had to collaborate with someone very different from you
   
Team projects in school are often times when people need to work with people different from themselves. I had an experience like this for one of my Game Design projects. I was in a group of three with people who were not as interested in the topic as I was. To make up for this, I took on more of a leadership role in the group and did a lot of the design. I also had to be very diligent in asking for updates about their work to keep them on task since it was work that they did not want to be doing.

3. Have you ever led a project or taken initiative on a team?

During my senior year of high school, I was team captain of my robotics team. Since the pandemic had been going on the two years previous, I was one of two people on the team that had actually been to a competition before. This led to a majority of the team not understanding what was going on. I decided to step up and take on more responsibility to teach the new team members how the robotics season works as well as doing my normal tasks. I also worked hard to be a good role model that the younger members could look up to. When certain members were upset, I would talk to them and calm them down. I also took a much larger part in the design process than I had in years prior. 
