My journey as a developing computer scientist has been ever-changing. I did not know much about the topic until high school so I felt that I had to teach myself in order to catch up to where I should be. I grew up in a very rural location so I did not have access to Wi-Fi until about middle school. I also did not have my own computer until I was old enough to babysit and earn enough money to buy one. Yet, I feel as though I still always knew I wanted to end up in an industry like this one. 
  
Ever since I was very little, I have always enjoyed math and logic. My elementary school teachers would assign us logic problems and I would be the only student in my class that was really excited about it. Later on in middle school, we had a robotics unit in our STEM class. That was one of my first times coding, even though it was just using block code. I did all of the coding for our robot and really enjoyed it. I eventually joined my school’s robotics team. Our team was really small but it taught me a lot about working together to complete a common goal in the STEM field. At this point I was thinking I was either going to go into engineering or graphic design. I have always loved art which is why graphic design seemed interesting to me. As bad as it was, it was during the pandemic that I really dived into learning about programming. 

During the COVID-19 pandemic, I spend my hours of free time attempting to learn new skills. One of the skills that really stuck was programming. I taught myself the basics of Java and JavaScript during this time using various online sources. It really helped me figure out that I wanted to major in computer science in college. My senior year of high school I decided to take some classes through an online program since my school did not offer any computer science classes. 

Going to college was immensely helpful to my educational journey. It offered a much larger variety of classes than I was able to take before and provided much more challenging projects. My soft skills were gradually growing but my technical skills and personal growth especially flourished in college. I became much more confident in my abilities and who I am as a person. I also learned so much more than I was able to teach myself. The more computer science classes that I took, the more sure I was that I chose the correct major. 

With one year left of college, I decided that I had time to take some additional classes and gain a game design minor. I was expecting this minor to just be fun but it taught me so much. I was able to use my passion for art along with my passion for programming to make some projects that I am really proud of. It also did a lot to teach me about thinking deeper about the design process and directly thinking about how the user will interact with the code that I am writing. I often would get my friends to test out my games and the information that I gained from observing those sessions has been applicable to more than just my games. I did not realize just how unintuitive certain aspects of my programs were until I watched another person attempt to navigate them. I think it is really important that computer scientists are able to have this experience with people testing out their code. 

My minor in game design also pushed me to go above and beyond what I normally would. Two of the projects that I am most proud of are “Dungeon Party” and “Mind On Break”. These two games were final projects for my senior year in college. They are both games that I put a large portion of my life into. “Mind On Break” in particular was challenging due to the main mechanic. The game uses the player’s microphone to interact with the game’s world. Audio input has a lot of different aspects that can go wrong. Getting the game to even pick up the audio at first was a struggle. Then once that was working, it only seemed to work on my computer. I figured out that it was due to the computer occasionally defaulting to the incorrect microphone and I fixed that. The game continued to run into microphone issues until the last couple weeks of the semester. One of the most enjoyable parts of programming is the moment that you solve a very difficult problem. When I finally got the microphone fully working, it filled me with so much pride that I will forever think highly of this project. 

I am also very proud of “Dungeon Party”. This is mostly because of how well it turned out and all the stuff that I learned in making it. It was my first time making a web app and my first time using Agile methodologies. My team worked very well together which I believe is a huge contributor to how well it turned out. 

My journey to where I am today has been filled with various ups and downs. I started in a place that made me feel behind and like I would not be able to be as successful as I could be. But, I genuinely believe that I have managed to work hard enough that I am where I currently need to be. I am so proud of my accomplishments in computer science and am excited to see what the future brings. 
